Standard Wordlists
We can increase the effectiveness of
our wordlists by adding words
and phrases specific to our target
organization.
For example, consider MegaCorp One, a
company that deals with nanotechnology.
The company website lists various
products
that the company sells, including
the Nanobot.
In a hypothetical assessment, we were
able to identify
a low-level password of Nanobot93.
Assuming this might be a common
password format for this company,
we would like to create a custom
wordlist that identifies other passwords
with a similar pattern, perhaps using
other product names.
We could browse the website and
manually add commonly-used terms
and product names to our custom
wordlist,
or we could use a tool like cewl to
do the heavy lifting for us.
According to the help output, cewl can be
configured by specifying several options,
but we’ll focus on a few key arguments.
For example, this command will scrape
the MegaCorp One web site,
locate words with a minimum of
six characters,
and write the wordlist to a custom file:
Our grep output shows that cewl located
the name of several products,
including the Nanobot.
We should consider the possibility that
other product names
may be used in passwords as well.
However, these words by themselves would
serve as extremely weak passwords,
and would not meet typical
password-enforcement rules.
These types of rules generally require the
use of upper and lower-case characters,
the use of numbers, and perhaps special
characters.
Based on the “Nanobot93” password
we’ve discovered,
we could surmise that the password
enforcement for MegaCorp One requires
at least the use of two numbers in the
password, and may further dictate
(however unlikely) that the numbers must
be used at the end of the password.
For the sake of this simple
demonstration, we’ll assume that
Megacorp One policy dictates that a
password end in a two-digit number.
To create passwords that meet this
requirement, we could write a Bash script,
but instead, we’ll use a much more
powerful tool called John the Ripper.
John the Ripper is a fast password
cracker with several features
including the ability to generate custom
wordlists and apply rule permutations.
Moving forward with our assumption
about the password policy,
we’ll add a rule to the John the Ripper
configuration file
that will mutate our wordlist, appending
two digits to each password.
To do this, we must locate the Wordlist
segment
where wordlist mutation rules are defined,
and append a new rule.
In this example, we’ll append the
two-digit sequence of numbers
from double zero to ninety-nine
after each word in our wordlist.
We’ll begin this rule with the dollar
sign character, which tells John
to append a character to the original
word from our wordlist.
Next, we specify the type of character
we want to append.
In our case we want any number
between zero and nine.
Finally, to append double-digits, we’ll
simply repeat the zero to nine sequence.
Now that the rule has been added to
the configuration file,
we can mutate our wordlist, which
currently contains 312 entries.
To do this, we’ll invoke john and
specify the dictionary file,
activate the rules in the
configuration file,
output the results to standard output,
and redirect that output to a file called
mutated.txt:
The resulting file contains over
46,000 password entries
due to the multiple mutations
performed on the passwords.
One of the passwords is “Nanobot93”,
which matches the password
we discovered earlier in our
hypothetical assessment.
Given the assumptions about the
MegaCorp One password policy,
this wordlist could produce results
in a dictionary attack.
Although this demonstration is
over-simplified,
it serves as a good example for how
password profiling can be beneficial
to the overall success of our
password attacks.